This is one of my favorite things,
I love Real time graph,
I think it's like this amazing,
it's ridiculous.
Basically you have two solutions
when it comes to accessing data
in real time graph,
we have something called subscriptions.
And basically, they're a well supported
GraphQL operation that's useful for
notified clients of events.
Another approach we have is
something called Live queries,
client side implementation to
be notified when data changes.
These are two different approaches
that GraphQL supports.
There's nothing stopping you from
adding your own implementation,
I mean, you could literally throw.
They use something like PubNub or
firebase, you can just make your own,
there's nothing to stopping
you from doing that.
These are just the implementations
that are built into GraphQL
through some means either
through the GraphQL spec or
through some server that you are using or
some service that you bought.
These are used with the ones that
GraphQL support on some type of bases.
Subscriptions versus live queries,
so there is a difference and
we're gonna talk about some of those.
So for subscriptions, these
are definitely part of the GraphQL spec.
So if you were to go look at the spec,
you would see something in there about
subscriptions and how to use them.
Very much like you would use queries and
mutations,
descriptions are sibling to queries and
mutation operators.
They're just there, they're pretty well,
except that you're not doing
anything extra to use them.
And they're more concerned
about event observation.
So it's not so
much concerned about when data changes.
It's more about when this event is fired.
Which is a big difference when it comes
to real time so take note of that.
It's definitely concerned about
when the events are fired.
And then because it is part of the spec,
there's great support.
There's, I can't think of a GraphQL
server implementation that doesn't support
subscriptions.
I mean,
they would be behind at this point.
Subscriptions had been part of
the spec for over a year now.
And everything pretty much supports it, so
you can pretty much guarantee
that if you use subscriptions,
you should be good to go as far as
having a client-side implementation.
Take advantage of it, or using a tool like
playground, which supports subscriptions.
It's just there, so that's a good feeling.
LiveQueries on the other hand
though are extremely experimental.
They are coming from the GraphQL spec and
this is something that they wanna do,
but they're just not there yet.
Just to enable them, it's basically
like first finding a service or
a framework that supports them and
then turning on a flag or
paying some extra money or
something like that or changing your code.
It's very experimental, but it's working
on it to become part of the spec.
And it's more concerned
about data observation.
So unlike subscriptions where you're
looking at events and events being fired,
livequeries are like, this data changed,
and that's a big difference too.
So it kind of changes how
you architecture your app,
your clients, to figure out when to
get new data and stuff like that.
And like I said, support is getting there.
I have seen a lot of things pop up that
support life queries, even paid services.
I've seen some support live queries.
I've seen some framework support them and
like a or something like that.
But it's just not up to par with
subscriptions, which is a standard.
Also take note that live queries were
announced way out the subscription.
And so
subscriptions had a head start stop that.
They both were announced and,
[INAUDIBLE] just took off know that
subscriptions was just a thing
before live queries was.
Cool, and if for both of them, they both
have flexible transports and protocols and
what I mean by that.
So like we're talking as
far as transports go and
protocols, we're talking
like web sockets polling.
Server sent events,
they both support all that.
And then as far as like different
protocols you got, you can use Redis for
PubSub.
You can use pretty much whatever you want.
They both really flexible and
don't care, whatever protocol or
transport mechanism that
you use to offer that.
In fact, some of the simplest ways enable
subscriptions is just like use polling,
just like polling you get all the data.
They both have predictable responses.
So you're able to get back exactly what
you want back, just like GraphQL queries.
Mutations allow you to do, you can do
those with subscriptions and live queries.
So you won't be surprised,
your application won't break because you
got back something you didn't expect.
You're only gonna get back what you asked
for, the same thing with subscriptions and
live query, so very predictable.
You can be rest assured that these
events or this data that's coming in
as things change are gonna be exactly
what you asked for and nothing more,
nothing less, so
you don't have to figure that part out.
And that's the great thing about using
something like subscriptions and
live queries in GraphQL versus setting up
your own system through something like
firebase or pubnub or
pusher, outside of GraphQL.
Although you can use those technologies
together with subscriptions and
live queries, there's you can also just
completely get away from GraphQL and
just have that stuff work outside of it.
Well, you won't get like predictable
responses and stuff like that, so
you lose out on it.
But it's easier to implement,
so which one to use?
Just use subscriptions.
I mean, it's better support,
it just works.
We're not gonna go to LiveQueries today.
If anyone has questions about LiveQueries,
you can ask me later today and
I'll show you some of
the things that support it.
I've tried to use them once, didn't work,
but I know a lot about them.
So if you got any questions, let me know.
But where's it gonna use subscriptions?
I recommend, if you are interested in real
time and you actually need it then use
subscriptions because honestly,
you might not even need subscriptions.
But if you do 100%, recommend just
using subscriptions, but why?
So, if manual refecthing and
polling have too high of a latency cost,
like for instance, a chat app or
something like that?
Then you definitely
wanna use subscriptions.
But actually, most of the time,
polling does the job, honestly.
If you just are really good with polling,
and use something like Apollo Client,
which has a really good polling
mechanism built into it?
Or even a refetch, just like, just let
me do a refetch when this thing happens,
when this page loads or
when this button is clicked or whatever.
I would say that works most of the time.
You're gonna get the job done, and
it's only when latency is an issue and
you wanna like,
know the minute it happens,
the millisecond it happens, then I would
look into using subscriptions.
Also if the initial state is huge, but the
changes are really, really, really small.
That's another good use case for
subscription.
So, and our example would be like a social
network, we have like a public feed.
The initial state on that feed might
be a huge list of thousands of posts.
But a change might just
be one little post.
So that would be a good use case for
subscriptions because we can do a query
to get all the initial feeds and
then we can just subscribe to
get new ones as they come in.
So it's a really good use case for that.
And also, because live queries,
like I said just aren't there yet.
They're just not there yet, so of all
three of those work for you, then yeah,
maybe you need subscriptions, if not,
just use polling or just do a refetch.
And figure out from there.
>> Is there any way to use subscriptions
on a non native GraphQL architecture,
one more GraphQL's wrapped
around the REST API.
>> Yes, subscriptions have no idea
where the data is coming from,
just like any other thing in GraphQL.
It doesn't care if the data
is coming from rest.
Doesn't matter if it's coming from a
database, rest, another GraphQL server.
You can use subscriptions because
that is completely independent
on how you are notified, because
the notification part of the subscriptions
as you'll find out is manual.
You have to be the one to notify.
So the data sources,
it doesn't really matter.
Usually happens on
a mutation most of the time.